# serverlessVideo

This project contains source code and supporting files for a serverless application that you can deploy with the SAM CLI. It includes the following files and folders:


- template.yaml - A template that defines the application's AWS resources.

## Deploy the sample application

The Serverless Application Model Command Line Interface (SAM CLI) is an extension of the AWS CLI that adds functionality for building and testing Lambda applications. It uses Docker to run your functions in an Amazon Linux environment that matches Lambda.

To use the SAM CLI, you need the following tools:

* SAM CLI - [Install the SAM CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-install.html)
* Node.js - [Install Node.js 18](https://nodejs.org/en/), including the NPM package management tool.
* Docker - [Install Docker community edition](https://hub.docker.com/search/?type=edition&offering=community)

To build and deploy your application for the first time, run the following in your shell:

```bash
sam build
sam deploy --guided
```

The first command will build the source of your application. The second command will package and deploy your application to AWS, with a series of prompts:

* **Stack Name**: The name of the stack to deploy to CloudFormation. This should be unique to your account and region, and a good starting point would be something matching your project name.
* **AWS Region**: The AWS region you want to deploy your app to.
* **Confirm changes before deploy**: If set to yes, any change sets will be shown to you before execution for manual review. If set to no, the AWS SAM CLI will automatically deploy application changes.
* **Allow SAM CLI IAM role creation**: Many AWS SAM templates, including this example, create AWS IAM roles required for the AWS Lambda function(s) included to access AWS services. By default, these are scoped down to minimum required permissions. To deploy an AWS CloudFormation stack which creates or modifies IAM roles, the `CAPABILITY_IAM` value for `capabilities` must be provided. If permission isn't provided through this prompt, to deploy this example you must explicitly pass `--capabilities CAPABILITY_IAM` to the `sam deploy` command.
* **Save arguments to samconfig.toml**: If set to yes, your choices will be saved to a configuration file inside the project, so that in the future you can just re-run `sam deploy` without parameters to deploy changes to your application.

You can find your State Machine ARN in the output values displayed after deployment.

## Use the SAM CLI to build and test locally

Build the Lambda functions in your application with the `sam build --use-container` command.

```bash
serverlessVideo$ sam build
```

The SAM CLI installs dependencies defined in `functions/*/package.json`, creates a deployment package, and saves it in the `.aws-sam/build` folder.

## Add a resource to your application
The application template uses AWS Serverless Application Model (AWS SAM) to define application resources. AWS SAM is an extension of AWS CloudFormation with a simpler syntax for configuring common serverless application resources such as functions, triggers, and APIs. For resources not included in [the SAM specification](https://github.com/awslabs/serverless-application-model/blob/master/versions/2016-10-31.md), you can use standard [AWS CloudFormation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-template-resource-type-ref.html) resource types.

## Fetch, tail, and filter Lambda function logs

To simplify troubleshooting, SAM CLI has a command called `sam logs`. `sam logs` lets you fetch logs generated by your deployed Lambda function from the command line. In addition to printing the logs on the terminal, this command has several nifty features to help you quickly find the bug.

`NOTE`: This command works for all AWS Lambda functions; not just the ones you deploy using SAM.

```bash
serverlessVideo$ sam logs -n StockCheckerFunction --stack-name serverlessVideo --tail
```

You can find more information and examples about filtering Lambda function logs in the [SAM CLI Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-logging.html).

## Unit tests

Tests are defined in the `functions/*/tests` folder in this project. Use NPM to install the [Mocha test framework](https://mochajs.org/) and run unit tests.

```bash
serverlessVideo$ cd functions/stock-checker
stock-checker$ npm install
stock-checker$ npm run test
```

## Testing Step Functions locally
Developers can test their state machines locally using Step Functions Local before deploying them to an AWS account. Often, developers want to test the control and data flows of their state machine executions in isolation, without any dependency on service integration availability. This is now possible using the [Mocked Service Integrations for Step Functions Local](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/step-functions/latest/dg/sfn-local-test-sm-exec.html).

The `statemachine/tests/MockConfigFile.json` contains various test cases with mocked service integrations.

- `HappyPathSellStockTest` - This test mocks the output of Check Stock Value, Sell Stock and Record Transaction using LambdaMockedSuccessValueGreaterThan50, SellStockLambdaMockedResponse and RecordTransactionDDBMockedResponse respectively.
- `HappyPathBuyStockTest` - This test mocks the output of Check Stock Value, Buy Stock and Record Transaction using LambdaMockedSuccessValueLowerThan50, BuyStockLambdaMockedResponse and RecordTransactionDDBMockedResponse respectively.
- `CheckStockRetryOnServiceExceptionTest` and `SellStockRetryOnServiceExceptionTest`- These tests mocks the failure with exponential retries.

This application also provides a `makefile` which has all the required commands to run docker [`make run`], create state machine and execute tests [`make all`], and checking history [`make history`].

On a terminal window, first start with running docker:

```bash
make run
```

On a different terminal window/tab, you can then run:

```bash
make all
```

Finally, you can check history of each execution by running:

```bash
make history
```

Check [`makefile`](./makefile) for details


## Cleanup

To delete the sample application that you created, use the AWS CLI. Assuming you used your project name for the stack name, you can run the following:

```bash
sam delete --stack-name serverlessVideo
```

## Resources

See the [AWS SAM developer guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/what-is-sam.html) for an introduction to SAM specification, the SAM CLI, and serverless application concepts.

Next, you can use AWS Serverless Application Repository to deploy ready to use Apps that go beyond hello world samples and learn how authors developed their applications: [AWS Serverless Application Repository main page](https://aws.amazon.com/serverless/serverlessrepo/)
